## Notes from conversation to retrieve and expand Hexiaz/Antigoni

### Hexiaz weather and visuals

The atmosphere of Hexiaz is *not* a "gas giant" like Jupiter or Saturn: a set of latitudinal bands of high-velocity atmospheric streams, with extreme turbulence at the boundaries, made opqaue by ice and liquid and nontransparent gas. Hexiaz is a gas giant in the sense of being a large planet with an extremely deep atmosphere, with a Floor that is often a slushy mix of solid and liquid constituents, broken by occasional outcrops of extremely hard igneous rock.

Hexiaz has a breathable atmosphere. The oxygen is mixed with argon and neon, rather than the nitrogen comon to Torestren air. The atmosphere is extremely optically clear; there are, however, massive banks of cloud that are not transparent, and are usually the loci of convective storms.

The sun is visble as a white orb, small but still warm. 

The volumes of clear air sometimes form very deep chasms.

### Lenses

A lens is a lenticular structure of transparent/translucent crystalline material (usually, for some reason, pale green in color.) It encloses an "aperture", a connection to another universe, one with a greater magical potential. The interface is a planar circle. The solid structure of the Lens stabilizes the interface, clamping it to the physical location in the primary world.

The lens (along with the traction spar and the rotor, which exhibit linear thrust and angular torque respectively) is one of the primitive machines of magic. Unlike the spar and the rotor, which provide immediate physical motive forces, the lens allows magical energy to seep out at a fixed rate. It is radiated from the surface of the lens at an angle derivable by Snell's law if the correct speed of propagation is applied. It can be captured and focused by lenses, prisms, and optical fiber of the same material, that do _not_ enclose an interface.

In other words, raw magical energy obeys rules of travel and transmission very similar to those predicted by ray optics for light.

As a rule, the amount of magical energy per unit time that can be obtained through the lens.hs proportional to:

 - the diameter of the aperture

 - the difference in magical potential between the worlds.

This means that the HUGE lens the twins obtain is capable of great energy output, IF it happens to be linked to a high-potential universe. De3termining the potential difference is a key point of investigation for the twins.

### Religion

Religious visions and transcendent experiences happen frequently on Hexiaz. The reason is the telepathic emanations of the Hexen lifeforms. These visions tend to be more powerful and persuasive in the Deeps (the lower, high-pressure volumes of the atmosphere) and less so un the upper areas of the planet.

As a rule, the cities of Hexiaz have tended to develop deities, and forms of worship, that work with the visions of the Hexen biosphere.

However, the monotheistic religion that arose in the Spaceport (the much larger city, much higher in the atmosphere, where the great cargo haulers descend from the spaceships in orbit (or docked at the moons)) is not really linked to the Hexen lifeforms at all.

This religion, the Temple faith, is a classic monotheist belief system. Patriarchal, worshipful, chauvinistic. It does not admit that the city religions have any validity; there are theological disputes about whether the city religions are worshipping demons, or whether they are just delusionally worshipping something nonexistent, something created purely from their imaginations.

### Villains

We agreed that there are elements of the Temple faith that are genuinely working from religious piety, as well as corrupt elements that want to use the power of the Temple for crooked purposes.
