
<p align="center">
<script type="text/javascript"><!--
google_ad_client = "pub-5844598359620998";
google_ad_width = 728;
google_ad_height = 90;
google_ad_format = "728x90_as";
google_ad_type = "text_image";
//2007-05-03: books-txt
google_ad_channel = "5958809296";
//-->
</script>
<script type="text/javascript"
  src="http://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/show_ads.js">
</script>
</p>

<p align="center"><img src="/pga-australia.jpg" width="80" height="75" alt=""></p>

<p align="center"><b>This site is full of FREE ebooks - <a href="http://gutenberg.net.au" target="_blank">Project Gutenberg Australia</a></b></p>
<hr align="center" width="40%">

<pre>


Title: Son of the White Wolf
Author: Robert E. Howard
* A Project Gutenberg of Australia eBook *
eBook No.: 0601081.txt
Edition: 1
Language: English
Character set encoding: Latin-1(ISO-8859-1)--8 bit
Date first posted: June 2006
Date most recently updated: June 2006

This eBook was produced by: Richard Scott and Colin Choat

Project Gutenberg of Australia eBooks are created from printed editions
which are in the public domain in Australia, unless a copyright notice
is included. We do NOT keep any eBooks in compliance with a particular
paper edition.

Copyright laws are changing all over the world. Be sure to check the
copyright laws for your country before downloading or redistributing this
file.

This eBook is made available at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg of Australia License which may be viewed online at
http://gutenberg.net.au/licence.html

To contact Project Gutenberg of Australia go to http://gutenberg.net.au


Title: Son of the White Wolf
Author: Robert E. Howard




CHAPTER I.

The Battle Standard

THE COMMANDER OF the Turkish outpost of El Ashraf was awakened before
dawn by the stamp of horses and jingle of accoutrements. He sat up and
shouted for his orderly. There was no response, so he rose, hurriedly
jerked on his garments, and strode out of the mud but that served as
his headquarters. What he saw rendered him momentarily speechless.

His command was mounted, in full marching formation, drawn up near the
railroad that it was their duty to guard. The plain to the left of the
track where the tents of the troopers had stood now lay bare. The
tents had been loaded on the baggage camels which stood fully packed
and ready to move out. The commandant glared wildly, doubting his own
senses, until his eyes rested on a flag borne by a trooper. The waving
pennant did not display the familiar crescent. The commandant turned
pale.

"What does this mean?" he shouted, striding forward. His lieutenant,
Osman, glanced at him inscrutably. Osman was a tall man, hard and
supple as steel, with a dark keen face.

"Mutiny, effendi," he replied calmly. "We are sick of this war we
fight for the Germans. We are sick of Djemal Pasha and those other
fools of the Council of Unity and Progress, and, incidentally, of you.
So we are going into the hills to build a tribe of our own."

"Madness!" gasped the officer, tugging at his revolver. Even as he
drew it, Osman shot him through the head.

The lieutenant sheathed the smoking pistol and turned to the troopers.
The ranks were his to a man, won to his wild ambition under the very
nose of the officer who now lay there with his brains oozing.

"Listen!" he commanded.

In the tense silence they all heard the low, deep reverberation in the
west.

"British guns!" said Osman. "Battering the Turkish Empire to bits! The
New Turks have failed. What Asia needs is not a new party, but a new
race! There are thousands of fighting men between the Syrian coast and
the Persian highlands, ready to be roused by a new word, a new
prophet! The East is moving in her sleep. Ours is the duty to awaken
her!

"You have all sworn to follow me into the hills. Let us return to the
ways of our pagan ancestors who worshipped the White Wolf on the
steppes of High Asia before they bowed to the creed of Mohammed!

"We have reached the end of the Islamic Age. We abjure Allah as a
superstition fostered by an epileptic Meccan camel driver. Our people
have copied Arab ways too long. But we hundred men are Turks! We have
burned the Koran. We bow not toward Mecca, nor swear by their false
Prophet. And now follow me as we planned--to establish ourselves in a
strong position in the hills and to seize Arab women for our wives."

"Our sons will be half Arab," someone protested.

"A man is the son of his father," retorted Osman. "We Turks have
always looted the harims of the world for our women, but our sons are
always Turks.

"Come! We have arms, horses, supplies. If we linger we shall be
crushed with the rest of the army between the British on the coast and
the Arabs the Englishman Lawrence is bringing up from the south. Onto
El Awad! The sword for the men--captivity, for the women!"

His voice cracked like a whip as he snapped the orders that set the
lines in motion. In perfect order they moved off through the
lightening dawn toward the range of sawedged hills in the distance.
Behind them the air still vibrated with the distant rumble of the
British artillery. Over them waved a banner that bore the head of a
white wolf--the battle-standard of most ancient Turan.

CHAPTER II.

Massacre

WHEN FRAULEIN OLGA VON BRUCKMANN, known as a famous German secret
agent, arrived at the tiny Arab hill-village of El Awad, it was in a
drizzling rain, that made the dusk a blinding curtain over the muddy
town.

With her companion, an Arab named Ahmed, she rode into the muddy
street, and the villagers crept from their hovels to stare in awe at
the first white woman most of them had ever seen.

A few words from Ahmed and the shaykh salaamed and showed her to the
best mud hut in the village. The horses were led away to feed and
shelter, and Ahmed paused long enough to whisper to his companion:

"El Awad is friendly to the Turks. Have no fear. I shall be near, in
any event."

"Try and get fresh horses," she urged. "I must push on as soon as
possible."

"The shaykh swears there isn't a horse in the village in fit condition
to be ridden. He may be lying. But at any rate our own horses will be
rested enough to go on by dawn. Even with fresh horses it would be
useless to try to go any farther tonight. We'd lose our way among the
hills, and in this region there's always the risk of running into
Lawrence's Bedouin raiders."

Olga knew that Ahmed knew she carried important secret documents from
Baghdad to Damascus, and she knew from experience that she could trust
his loyalty. Removing only her dripping cloak and riding boots, she
stretched herself on the dingy blankets that served as a bed. She was
worn out from the strain of the journey.

She was the first white woman ever to attempt to ride from Baghdad to
Damascus. Only the protection accorded a trusted secret agent by the
long arm of the German-Turkish government, and her guide's zeal and
craft, had brought her thus far in safety.

She fell asleep, thinking of the long weary miles still to be
traveled, and even greater dangers, now that she had come into the
region where the Arabs were fighting their Turkish masters. The Turks
still held the country, that summer of 1917, but lightninglike raids
flashed across the desert, blowing up trains, cutting tracks and
butchering the inhabitants of isolated posts. Lawrence was leading the
tribes northward, and with him was the mysterious American, El Borak,
whose name was one to hush children.

She never knew how long she slept, but she awoke suddenly and sat up,
in fright and bewilderment. The rain still beat on the roof, but there
mingled with it shrieks of pain or fear, yells and the staccato
crackling of rifles. She sprang up, lighted a candle and was just
pulling on her boots when the door was hurled open violently.

Ahmed reeled in, his dark face livid, blood oozing through the fingers
that clutched his breast.

"The village is attacked!" he cried chokingly. "Men in Turkish
uniform! There must be some mistake! They know El Awad is friendly! I
tried to tell their officer we are friends, but he shot me! We must
get away, quick!"

A shot cracked in the open door behind him and a jet of fire spurted
from the blackness. Ahmed groaned and crumpled. Olga cried out in
horror, staring wide-eyed at the figure who stood before her. A tall,
wiry man in Turkish uniform blocked the door. He was handsome in a
dark, hawklike way, and he eyed her in a manner that brought the blood
to her cheeks.

"Why did you kill that man?" she demanded. "He was a trusted servant
of your country."

"I have no country," he answered, moving toward her. Outside the
firing was dying away and women's voices were lifted piteously. "I go
to build one, as my ancestor Osman did."

"I don't know what you're talking about," she retorted. "But unless
you provide me with an escort to the nearest post, I shall report you
to your superiors, and--"

He laughed wildly at her. "I have no superiors, you little fool! I am
an empire builder, I tell you! I have a hundred armed men at my
disposal. I'll build a new race in these hills." His eyes blazed as he
spoke.

"You're mad!" she exclaimed.

"Mad? It's you who are mad not to recognize the possibilities as I
have! This war is bleeding the life out of Europe. When it's over, no
matter who wins, the nations will lie prostrate. Then it will be
Asia's turn!

"If Lawrence can build up an Arab army to fight for him, then
certainly I, an Ottoman, can build up a kingdom among my own peoples!
Thousands of Turkish soldiers have deserted to the British. They and
more will desert again to me, when they hear that a Turk is building
anew the empire of ancient Turan."

"Do what you like," she answered, believing he had been seized by the
madness that often grips men in time of war when the world seems
crumbling and any wild dream looks possible. "But at least don't
interfere with my mission. If you won't give me an escort, I'll go on
alone."

"You'll go with me!" he retorted, looking down at her with hot
admiration.

Olga was a handsome girl, tall, slender but supple, with a wealth of
unruly golden hair. She was so completely feminine that no disguise
would make her look like a man, not even the voluminous robes of an
Arab, so she had attempted none. She trusted instead to Ahmed's skill
to bring her safely through the desert.

"Do you hear those screams? My men are supplying themselves with wives
to bear soldiers for the new empire. Yours shall be the signal honor
of being the first to go into Sultan Osman's seraglio!"

"You do not dare!" She snatched a pistol from her blouse.

Before she could level it he wrenched it from her with brutal
strength.

"Dare!" He laughed at her vain struggles. "What do I not dare? I tell
you a new empire is being born tonight! Come with me! There's no time
for love-making now. Before dawn we must be on the march for
Sulaiman's Walls. The star of the White Wolf rises!"

CHAPTER III.

The Call of Blood

THE SUN WAS not long risen over the saw-edged mountains to the east,
but already the heat was glazing the cloudless sky to the hue of
white-hot steel. Along the dim road that split the immensity of the
desert a single shape moved. The shape grew out of the heat-hazes of
the south and resolved itself into a man on a camel.

The man was no Arab. His boots and khakis, as well as the rifle-butt
jutting from beneath his knee, spoke of the West. But with his dark
face and hard frame he did not look out of place, even in that fierce
land. He was Francis Xavier Gordon, El Borak, whom men loved, feared
or hated, according to their political complexion, from the Golden
Horn to the headwaters of the Ganges.

He had ridden most of the night, but his iron frame had not yet
approached the fringes of weariness. Another mile, and he sighted a
yet dimmer trail straggling down from a range of hills to the east.
Something was coming along this trail--a crawling something that left a
broad dark smear on the hot flints.

Gordon swung his camel into the trail and a moment later bent over the
man who lay there gasping stertorously. It was a young Arab, and the
breast of his abba was soaked in blood.

"Yusef!" Gordon drew back the wet abba, glanced at the bared breast,
then covered it again. Blood oozed steadily from a blue-rimmed
bullet-hole. There was nothing he could do. Already the Arab's eyes were
glazing. Gordon stared up the trail, seeing neither horse nor camel
anywhere. But the dark smear stained the stones as far as he could
see.

"My God, man, how far have you crawled in this condition?"

"An hour--many hours--I do not know!" panted Yusef. "I fainted and fell
from the saddle. When I came to I was lying in the trail and my horse
was gone. But I knew you would be coming up from the south, so I
crawled--crawled! Allah, how hard are thy stones!"

Gordon set a canteen to his lips and Yusef drank noisily, then
clutched Gordon's sleeve with clawing fingers.

"El Borak, I am dying and that is no great matter, but there is the
matter of vengeance--not for me, ya sidi, but for innocent ones. You
know I was on furlough to my village, El Awad. I am the only man of El
Awad who fights for Arabia. The elders are friendly to the Turks. But
last night the Turks burned El Awad! They marched in before midnight
and the people welcomed them--while I hid in a shed.

"Then without warning they began slaying! The men of El Awad were
unarmed and helpless. I slew one soldier myself. Then they shot me and
I dragged myself away--found my horse and rode to tell the tale before
I died. Ah, Allah, I have tasted of perdition this night!"

"Did you recognize their officer?" asked Gordon.

"I never saw him before. They called this leader of theirs Osman
Pasha. Their flag bore the head of a white wolf. I saw it by the light
of the burning huts. My people cried out in vain that they were
friends.

"There was a German woman and a man of Hauran who came to El Awad from
the east, just at nightfall. I think they were spies. The Turks shot
him and took her captive. It was all blood and madness."

"Mad indeed!" muttered Gordon. Yusef lifted himself on an elbow and
groped for him, a desperate urgency in his weakening voice.

"El Borak, I fought well for the Emir Feisal, and for Lawrence
effendi, and for you! I was at Yenbo, and Wejh, and Akaba. Never have
I asked a reward! I ask now: justice and vengeance! Grant me this
plea: Slay the Turkish dogs who butchered my people!"

Gordon did not hesitate.

"They shall die," he answered.

Yusef smiled fiercely, gasped: "Allaho akbat!" then sank back dead.

Within the hour Gordon rode eastward. The vultures had already
gathered in the sky with their grisly foreknowledge of death, then
flapped sullenly away from the cairn of stones he had piled over the
dead man, Yusef.

Gordon's business in the north could wait. One reason for his
dominance over the Orientals was the fact that in some ways his nature
closely resembled theirs. He not only understood the cry for
vengeance, but he sympathized with it. And he always kept his promise.

But he was puzzled. The destruction of a friendly village was not
customary, even by the Turks, and certainly they would not ordinarily
have mishandled their own spies. If they were deserters they were
acting in an unusual manner, for most deserters made their way to
Feisal. And that wolf's head banner?

Gordon knew that certain fanatics in the New Turks party were trying
to erase all signs of Arab culture from their civilization. This was
an impossible task, since that civilization itself was based on Arabic
culture; but he had heard that in Istambul the radicals even advocated
abandoning Islam and reverting to the paganism of their ancestors. But
he had never believed the tale.

The sun was sinking over the mountains of Edom when Gordon came to
ruined El Awad, in a fold of the bare hills. For hours before he had
marked its location by black dots dropping in the blue. That they did
not rise again told him that the village was deserted except for the
dead.

As he rode into the dusty street several vultures flapped heavily
away. The hot sun had dried the mud, curdled the red pools in the
dust. He sat in his saddle a while, staring silently.

He was no stranger to the handiwork of the Turk. He had seen much of
it in the long fighting up from Jeddah on the Red Sea. But even so, he
felt sick. The bodies lay in the street, headless, disemboweled, hewn
asunder--bodies of children, old women and men. A red mist floated
before his eyes, so that for a moment the landscape seemed to swim in
blood. The slayers were gone; but they had left a plain road for him
to follow.

What the signs they had left did not show him, he guessed. The slayers
had loaded their female captives on baggage camels, and had gone
eastward, deeper into the hills. Why they were following that road he
could not guess, but he knew where it led--to the long-abandoned Walls
of Sulaiman, by way of the Well of Achmet.

Without hesitation he followed. He had not gone many miles before he
passed more of their work--a baby, its brains oozing from its broken
head. Some kidnapped woman had hidden her child in her robes until it
had been wrenched from her and brained on the rocks, before her eyes.

The country became wilder as he went. He did not halt to eat, but
munched dried dates from his pouch as he rode. He did not waste time
worrying over the recklessness of his action--one lone American dogging
the crimson trail of a Turkish raiding party.

He had no plan; his future actions would depend on the circumstances
that arose. But he had taken the death-trail and he would not turn
back while he lived. He was no more foolhardy than his grandfather who
single-handedly trailed an Apache war-party for days through the
Guadalupes and returned to the settlement on the Pecos with scalps
hanging from his belt.

The sun had set and dusk was closing in when Gordon topped a ridge and
looked down on the plain whereon stands the Well of Achmet with its
straggling palm grove. To the right of that cluster stood the tents,
horse lines and camel lines of a well-ordered force. To the left stood
a hut used by travelers as a khan. The door was shut and a sentry
stood before it. While he watched, a man came from the tents with a
bowl of food which he handed in at the door.

Gordon could not see the occupant, but he believed it was the German
girl of whom Yusef had spoken, though why they should imprison one of
their own spies was one of the mysteries of this strange affair. He
saw their flag, and could make out a splotch of white that must be the
wolf's head. He saw, too, the Arab women, thirty-five or forty of them
herded into a pen improvised from bales and pack-saddles. They
crouched together dumbly, dazed by their misfortunes.

He had hidden his camel below the ridge, on the western slope, and he
lay concealed behind a clump of stunted bushes until night had fallen.
Then he slipped down the slope, circling wide to avoid the mounted
patrol, which rode leisurely about the camp. He lay prone behind a
boulder till it had passed, then rose and stole toward the hut. Fires
twinkled in the darkness beneath the palms and he heard the wailing of
the captive women.

The sentry before the door of the hut did not see the cat-footed
shadow that glided up to the rear wall. As Gordon drew close he heard
voices within. They spoke in Turkish.

One window was in the back wall. Strips of wood had been fastened over
it, to serve as both pane and bars. Peering between them, Gordon saw a
slender girl in a travel-worn riding habit standing before a dark-faced
man in a Turkish uniform. There was no insignia to show what his
rank had been. The Turk played with a riding whip and his eyes gleamed
with cruelty in the light of a candle on a camp table.

"What do I care for the information you bring from Baghdad?" he was
demanding. "Neither Turkey nor Germany means anything to me. But it
seems you fail to realize your own position. It is mine to command,
you to obey! You are my prisoner, my captive, my slave! It's time you
learned what that means. And the best teacher I know is the whip!"

He fairly spat the last word at her and she paled.

"You dare not subject me to this indignity!" she whispered weakly.

Gordon knew this man must be Osman Pasha. He drew his heavy automatic
from its scabbard under his armpit and aimed at the Turk's breast
through the crack in the window. But even as his finger closed on the
trigger he changed his mind. There was the sentry at the door, and a
hundred other armed men, within hearing, whom the sound of a shot
would bring on the run. He grasped the window bars and braced his
legs.

"I see I must dispel your illusions," muttered Osman, moving toward
the girl who cowered back until the wall stopped her. Her face was
white. She had dealt with many dangerous men in her hazardous career,
and she was not easily frightened. But she had never met a man like
Osman. His face was a terrifying mask of cruelty; the ferocity that
gloats over the agony of a weaker thing shone in his eyes.

Suddenly he had her by the hair, dragging her to him, laughing at her
scream of pain. Just then Gordon ripped the strips off the window. The
snapping of the wood sounded loud as a gun-shot and Osman wheeled,
drawing his pistol, as Gordon came through the window.

The American hit on his feet, leveled automatic checking Osman's move.
The Turk froze, his pistol lifted shoulder high, muzzle pointing at
the roof. Outside the sentry called anxiously.

"Answer him!" grated Gordon below his breath. "Tell him everything is
all right. And drop that gun!"

The pistol fell to the floor and the girl snatched it up.

"Come here, Fraulein!"

She ran to him, but in her haste she crossed the line of fire. In that
fleeting moment when her body shielded his, Osman acted. He kicked the
table and the candle toppled and went out, and simultaneously he dived
for the floor. Gordon's pistol roared deafeningly just as the hut was
plunged into darkness. The next instant the door crashed inward and
the sentry bulked against the starlight, to crumple as Gordon's gun
crashed again and yet again.

With a sweep of his arm Gordon found the girl and drew her toward the
window. He lifted her through as if she had been a child, and climbed
through after her. He did not know whether his blind slug had struck
Osman or not. The man was crouching silently in the darkness, but
there was no time to strike a match and see whether he was living or
dead. But as they ran across the shadowy plain, they heard Osman's
voice lifted in passion.

By the time they reached the crest of the ridge the girl was winded.
Only Gordon's arm about her waist, half dragging, half carrying her,
enabled her to make the last few yards of the steep incline. The plain
below them was alive with torches and shouting men. Osman was yelling
for them to run down the fugitives, and his voice came faintly to them
on the ridge.

"Take them alive, curse you! Scatter and find them! It's El Borak!" An
instant later he was yelling with an edge of panic in his voice:
"Wait. Come back! Take cover and make ready to repel an attack! He may
have a horde of Arabs with him!"

"He thinks first of his own desires, and only later of the safety of
his men," muttered Gordon. "I don't think he'll ever get very far.
Come on."

He led the way to the camel, helped the girl into the saddle, then
leaped up himself. A word, a tap of the camel wand, and the beast
ambled silently off down the slope.

"I know Osman caught you at El Awad," said Gordon. "But what's he up
to? What's his game?"

"He was a lieutenant stationed at El Ashraf," she answered. "He
persuaded his company to mutiny, kill their commander and desert. He
plans to fortify the Walls of Sulaiman, and build a new empire. I
thought at first he was mad, but he isn't. He's a devil."

"The Walls of Sulaiman?" Gordon checked his mount and sat for a moment
motionless in the starlight.

"Are you game for an all-night ride?" he asked presently.

"Anywhere! As long as it is far away from Osman!" There was a hint of
hysteria in her voice.

"I doubt if your escape will change his plans. He'll probably lie
about Achmet all night under arms expecting an attack. In the morning
he will decide that I was alone, and pull out for the Walls.

"Well, I happen to know that an Arab force is there, waiting for an
order from Lawrence to move on to Ageyli. Three hundred Juheina
camel-riders, sworn to Feisal. Enough to eat Osman's gang. Lawrence's
messenger should reach them some time between dawn and noon. There is
a chance we can get there before the Juheina pull out. If we can,
we'll turn them on Osman and wipe him out, with his whole pack.

"It won't upset Lawrence's plans for the Juheina to get to Ageyli a
day late, and Osman must be destroyed. He's a mad dog running loose."

"His ambition sounds mad," she murmured. "But when he speaks of it,
with his eyes blazing, it's easy to believe he might even succeed."

"You forget that crazier things have happened in the desert," he
answered, as he swung the camel eastward. "The world is being made
over here, as well as in Europe. There's no telling what damage this
Osman might do, if left to himself. The Turkish Empire is falling to
pieces, and new empires have risen out of the ruins of old ones.

"But if we can get to Sulaiman before the Juheina march, we'll check
him. If we find them gone, we'll be in a pickle ourselves. It's a
gamble, our lives against his. Are you game?"

"Till the last card falls!" she retorted. His face was a blur in the
starlight, but she sensed rather than saw his grim smile of approval.

The camel's hoofs made no sound as they dropped down the slope and
circled far wide of the Turkish camp. Like ghosts on a ghost-camel
they moved across the plain under the stars. A faint breeze stirred
the girl's hair. Not until the fires were dim behind them and they
were again climbing a hill-road did she speak.

"I know you. You're the American they call El Borak, the Swift. You
came down from Afghanistan when the war began. You were with King
Hussein even before Lawrence came over from Egypt. Do you know who I
am?"

"Yes."

"Then what's my status?" she asked. "Have you rescued me or captured
me? Am I a prisoner?"

"Let us say companion, for the time being," he suggested. "We're up
against a common enemy. No reason why we shouldn't make common cause,
is there?"

"None!" she agreed, and leaning her blond head against his hard
shoulder, she went soundly to sleep.

A gaunt moon rose, pushing back the horizons, flooding craggy slopes
and dusty plains with leprous silver. The vastness of the desert
seemed to mock the tiny figures on their tiring camel, as they rode
blindly on toward what Fate they could not guess.

CHAPTER IV.

Wolves of the Desert

OLGA AWOKE As dawn was breaking. She was cold and stiff, in spite of
the cloak Gordon had wrapped about her, and she was hungry. They were
riding through a dry gorge with rock-strewn slopes rising on either
hand, and the camel's gait had become a lurching walk. Gordon halted
it, slid off without making it kneel, and took its rope.

"It's about done, but the Walls aren't far ahead. Plenty of water
there--food, too, if the Juheina are still there. There are dates in
that pouch."

If he felt the strain of fatigue he did not show it as he strode along
at the camel's head. Olga rubbed her chill hands and wished for
sunrise.

"The Well of Harith," Gordon indicated a walled enclosure ahead of
them. "The Turks built that wall, years ago, when the Walls of
Sulaiman were an army post. Later they abandoned both positions."

The wall, built of rocks and dried mud, was in good shape, and inside
the enclosure there was a partly ruined hut. The well was shallow,
with a mere trickle of water at the bottom.

"I'd better get off and walk too," Olga suggested.

"These flints would cut your boots and feet to pieces. It's not far
now. Then the camel can rest all it needs."

"And if the Juheina aren't there--" She left the sentence unfinished.

He shrugged his shoulders.

"Maybe Osman won't come up before the camel's rested."

"I believe he'll make a forced march," she said, not fearfully, but
calmly stating an opinion. "His beasts are good. If he drives them
hard, he can get here before midnight. Our camel won't be rested
enough to carry us, by that time. And we couldn't get away on foot, in
this desert."

He laughed, and respecting her courage, did not try to make light of
their position.

"Well," he said quietly, "let's hope the Juheina are still there!"

If they were not, she and Gordon were caught in a trap of hostile,
waterless desert, fanged with the long guns of predatory tribesmen.

Three miles further east the valley narrowed and the floor pitched
upward, dotted by dry shrubs and boulders. Gordon pointed suddenly to
a faint ribbon of smoke feathering up into the sky.

"Look! The Juheina are there!"

Olga gave a deep sigh of relief. Only then did she realize how
desperately she had been hoping for some such sign. She felt like
shaking a triumphant fist at the rocky waste about her, as if at a
sentient enemy, sullen and cheated of its prey.

Another mile and they topped a ridge and saw a large enclosure
surrounding a cluster of wells. There were Arabs squatting about their
tiny cooking fires. As the travelers came suddenly into view within a
few hundred yards of them, the Bedouins sprang up, shouting. Gordon
drew his breath suddenly between clenched teeth.

"They're not Juheina! They're Rualla! Allies of the Turks!"

Too late to retreat. A hundred and fifty wild men were on their feet,
glaring, rifles cocked.

Gordon did the next best thing and went leisurely toward them. To look
at him one would have thought that he had expected to meet these men
here, and anticipated nothing but a friendly greeting. Olga tried to
imitate his tranquility, but she knew their lives hung on the crook of
a trigger finger. These men were supposed to be her allies, but her
recent experience made her distrust Orientals. The sight of these
hundreds of wolfish faces filled her with sick dread.

They were hesitating, rifles lifted, nervous and uncertain as
surprised wolves, then:

"Allah!" howled a tall, scarred warrior. "It is El Borak!"

Olga caught her breath as she saw the man's finger quiver on his
rifle-trigger. Only a racial urge to gloat over his victim kept him
from shooting the American then and there.

"El Borak!" The shout was a wave that swept the throng.

Ignoring the clamor, the menacing rifles, Gordon made the camel kneel
and lifted Olga off. She tried, with fair success, to conceal her fear
of the wild figures that crowded about them, but her flesh crawled at
the bloodlust burning redly in each wolfish eye.

Gordon's rifle was in its boot on the saddle, and his pistol was out
of sight, under his shirt. He was careful not to reach for the rifle--a
move which would have brought a hail of bullets--but having helped the
girl down, he turned and faced the crowd casually, his hands empty.
Running his glance over the fierce faces, he singled out a tall
stately man in the rich garb of a shaykh, who was standing somewhat
apart.

"You keep poor watch, Mitkhal ion Ali," said Gordon. "If I had been a
raider your men would be lying in their blood by this time."

Before the shaykh could answer, the man who had first recognized
Gordon thrust himself violently forward, his face convulsed with hate.

"You expected to find friends here, El Borak!" he exulted. "But you
come too late! Three hundred Juheina dogs rode north an hour before
dawn! We saw them go, and came up after they had gone. Had they known
of your coming, perhaps they would have stayed to welcome you!"

"It's not to you I speak, Zangi Khan, you Kurdish dog," retorted
Gordon contemptuously, "but to the Rualla--honorable men and fair
foes!"

Zangi Khan snarled like a wolf and threw up his rifle, but a lean
Bedouin caught his arm.

"Wait!" he growled. "Let El Borak speak. His words are not wind."

A rumble of approval came from the Arabs. Gordon had touched their
fierce pride and vanity. That would not save his life, but they were
willing to listen to him before they killed him.

"If you listen he will trick you with cunning words!" shouted the
angered Zangi Khan furiously. "Slay him now, before he can do us
harm!"

"Is Zangi Khan shaykh of the Rualla that he gives commands while
Mitkhal stands silent?" asked Gordon with biting irony.

Mitkhal reacted to his taunt exactly as Gordon knew he would.

"Let El Borak speak!" he ordered. "I command here, Zangi Khan! Do not
forget that."

"I do not forget, ya sidi," the Kurd assured him, but his eyes burned
red at the rebuke. "I but spoke in zeal for your safety."

Mitkhal gave him a slow, searching glance which told Gordon that there
was no love lost between the two men. Zangi Khan's reputation as a
fighting man meant much to the younger warriors. Mitkhal was more fox
than wolf, and he evidently feared the Kurd's influence over his men.
As an agent of the Turkish government Zangi's authority was
theoretically equal to Mitkhal's.

Actually this amounted to little, but Mitkhal's tribesmen took orders
from their shaykh only. But it put Zangi in a position to use his
personal talents to gain an ascendency--an ascendency Mitkhal feared
would relegate him to a minor position.

"Speak, El Borak," ordered Mitkhal. "But speak swiftly. It may be," he
added, "Allah's will that the moments of your life are few."

"Death marches from the west," said Gordon abruptly. "Last night a
hundred Turkish deserters butchered the people of El Awad."

"Wallah!" swore a tribesman. "El Awad was friendly to the Turks!"

"A lie!" cried Zangi Khan. "Or if true, the dogs of deserters slew the
people to curry favor with Feisal."

"When did men come to Feisal with the blood of children on their
hands?" retorted Gordon. "They have foresworn Islam and worship the
White Wolf. They carried off the young women and the old women, the
men and the children they slew like dogs."

A murmur of anger rose from the Arabs. The Bedouins had a rigid code
of warfare, and they did not kill women or children. It was the
unwritten law of the desert, old when Abraham came up out of Chaldea.

But Zangi Khan cried out in angry derision, blind to the resentful
looks cast at him. He did not understand that particular phase of the
Bedouins' code, for his people had no such inhibition. Kurds in war
killed women as well as men.

"What are the women of El Awad to us?" he sneered.

"Your heart I know already," answered Gordon with icy contempt. "It is
to the Rualla that I speak."

"A trick!" howled the Kurd. "A lie to trick us!"

"It is no lie!" Olga stepped forward boldly. "Zangi Khan, you know
that I am an agent of the German government. Osman Pasha, leader of
these renegades burned El Awad last night, as El Borak has said. Osman
murdered Ahmed ibn Shalaan, my guide, among others. He is as much our
enemy as he is an enemy of the British."

She looked to Mitkhal for help, but the shaykh stood apart, like an
actor watching a play in which he had not yet received his cue.

"What if it is the truth?" Zangi Khan snarled, muddled by his hate and
fear of El Borak's cunning. "What is El Awad to us?"

Gordon caught him up instantly.

"This Kurd asks what is the destruction of a friendly village!
Doubtless, naught to him! But what does it mean to you, who have left
your herds and families unguarded? If you let this pack of mad dogs
range the land, how can you be sure of the safety of your wives and
children?"

"What would you have, El Borak?" demanded a grey-bearded raider.

"Trap these Turks and destroy them. I'll show you how."

It was then that Zangi Khan lost his head completely.

"Heed him not!" he screamed. "Within the hour we must ride northward!
The Turks will give us ten thousand British pounds for his head!"

Avarice burned briefly in the men's eyes, to be dimmed by the
reflection that the reward, offered for El Borak's head, would be
claimed by the shaykh and Zangi. They made no move and Mitkhal stood
aside with an air of watching a contest that did not concern himself.

"Take his head!" screamed Zangi, sensing hostility at last, and thrown
into a panic by it.

His demoralization was completed by Gordon's taunting laugh.

"You seem to be the only one who wants my head, Zangi! Perhaps you can
take it!"

Zangi howled incoherently, his eyes glaring red, then threw up his
rifle, hip-high. Just as the muzzle came up, Gordon's automatic
crashed thunderously. He had drawn so swiftly not a man there had
followed his motion. Zangi Khan reeled back under the impact of hot
lead, toppled sideways and lay still.

In an instant a hundred cocked rifles covered Gordon.

Confused by varying emotions, the men hesitated for the fleeting
instant it took Mitkhal to shout:

"Hold! Do not shoot!"

He strode forward with the air of a man ready to take the center of
the stage at last, but he could not disguise the gleam of satisfaction
in his shrewd eyes.

"No man here is kin to Zangi Khan," he said offhandedly. "There is no
cause for blood feud. He had eaten the salt, but he attacked our
prisoner whom he thought unarmed."

He held out his hand for the pistol, but Gordon did not surrender it.

"I'm not your prisoner," said he. "I could kill you before your men
could lift a finger. But I didn't come here to fight you. I came
asking aid to avenge the children and women of my enemies. I risk my
life for your families. Are you dogs, to do less?"

The question hung in the air unanswered, but he had struck the right
chord in their barbaric bosoms, that were always ready to respond to
some wild deed of reckless chivalry. Their eyes glowed and they looked
at their shaykh expectantly.

Mitkhal was a shrewd politician. The butchery at El Awad meant much
less to him than it meant to his younger warriors. He had associated
with so-called civilized men long enough to lose much of his primitive
integrity. But he always followed the side of public opinion, and was
shrewd enough to lead a movement he could not check. Yet, he was not
to be stampeded into a hazardous adventure.

"These Turks may be too strong for us," he objected.

"I'll show you how to destroy them with little risk," answered Gordon.
"But there must be covenants between us, Mitkhal."

"These Turks must be destroyed," said Mitkhal, and he spoke sincerely
there, at least. "But there are too many blood feuds between us, El
Borak, for us to let you get out of our hands."

Gordon laughed.

"You can't whip the Turks without my help and you know it. Ask your
young men what they desire!"

"Let El Borak lead us!" shouted a young warrior instantly. A murmur of
approval paid tribute to Gordon's widespread reputation as a
strategist.

"Very well!" Mitkhal took the tide. "Let there be truce between us--with
conditions! Lead us against the Turks. If you win, you and the
woman shall go free. If we lose, we take your head!"

Gordon nodded, and the warriors yelled in glee. It was just the sort
of a bargain that appealed to their minds, and Gordon knew it was the
best he could make.

"Bring bread and salt!" ordered Mitkhal, and a giant black slave moved
to do his bidding. "Until the battle is lost or won there is truce
between us, and no Rualla shall harm you, unless you spill Rualla
blood."

Then he thought of something else and his brow darkened as he
thundered:

"Where is the man who watched from the ridge?"

A terrified youth was pushed forward. He was a member of a small tribe
tributary to the more important Rualla.

"Oh, shaykh," he faltered, "I was hungry and stole away to a fire for
meat--"

"Dog!" Mitkhal struck him in the face. "Death is thy portion for
failing in thy duty."

"Wait!" Gordon interposed. "Would you question the will of Allah? If
the boy had not deserted his post he would have seen us coming up the
valley, and your men would have fired on us and killed us. Then you
would not have been warned of the Turks, and would have fallen prey to
them before discovering they were enemies. Let him go and give thanks
to Allah Who sees all!"

It was the sort of sophistry that appeals to the Arab mind. Even
Mitkhal was impressed.

"Who knows the mind of Allah?" he conceded. "Live, Musa, but next time
perform the will of Allah with vigilance and a mind to orders. And
now, El Borak, let us discuss battle-plans while food is prepared."

CHAPTER V.

Treachery

IT WAS NOT yet noon when Gordon halted the Rualla beside the Well of
Harith. Scouts sent westward reported no sign of the Turks, and the
Arabs went forward with the plans made before leaving the Walls--plans
outlined by Gordon and agreed to by Mitkhal. First the tribesmen began
gathering rocks and hurling them into the well.

"The water's still beneath," Gordon remarked to Olga. "But it'll take
hours of hard work to clean out the well so that anybody can get to
it. The Turks can't do it under our rifles. If we win, we'll clean it
out ourselves, so the next travelers won't suffer."

"Why not take refuge in the sangar ourselves?" she asked.

"Too much of a trap. That's what we're using it for. We'd have no
chance with them in open fight, and if we laid an ambush out in the
valley, they'd simply fight their way through us. But when a man's
shot at in the open, his first instinct is to make for the nearest
cover. So I'm hoping to trick them into going into the sangar. Then
we'll bottle them up and pick them off at our leisure. Without water
they can't hold out long. We shouldn't lose a dozen men, if any."

"It seems strange to see you solicitous about the lives of these
Rualla, who are your enemies, after all," she laughed.

"Instinct, maybe. No man fit to lead wants to lose any more of them
then he can help. Just now these men are my allies, and it's up to me
to protect them as well as I can. I'll admit I'd rather be fighting
with the Juheina. Feisal's messenger must have started for the Walls
hours before I supposed he would."

"And if the Turks surrender, what then?"

"I'll try to get them to Lawrence--all but Osman Pasha." Gordon's face
darkened. "That man hangs if he falls into my hands."

"How will you get them to Lawrence? The Rualla won't take them."

"I haven't the slightest idea. But let's catch our hare before we
start broiling him. Osman may whip the daylights out of us."

"It means your head if he does," she warned with a shudder.

"Well, it's worth ten thousand pounds to the Turks," he laughed, and
moved to inspect the partly ruined hut. Olga followed him.

Mitkhal, directing the blocking of the well, glanced sharply at them,
then noted that a number of men were between them and the gate, and
turned back to his overseeing.

"Hsss, El Borak!" It was a tense whisper, just as Gordon and Olga
turned to leave the hut. An instant later they located a tousled head
thrust up from behind a heap of rubble. It was the boy Musa who
obviously had slipped into the hut through a crevice in the back wall.

"Watch from the door and warn me if you see anybody coming," Gordon
muttered to Olga. "This lad may have something to tell."

"I have, effendi!" The boy was trembling with excitement. "I overheard
the shaykh talking secretly to his black slave, Hassan. I saw them
walk away among the palms while you and the woman were eating, at the
Walls, and I crept after them, for I feared they meant you mischief--and
you saved my life.

"El Borak, listen! Mitkhal means to slay you, whether you win this
battle for him or not! He was glad you slew the Kurd, and he is glad
to have your aid in wiping out these Turks. But he lusts for the gold
the other Turks will pay for your head. Yet he dares not break his
word and the covenant of the salt openly. So, if we win the battle,
Hassan is to shoot you, and swear you fell by a Turkish bullet!"

The boy rushed on with his story:

"Then Mitkhal will say to the people: 'El Borak was our guest and ate
our salt. But now he is dead, through no fault of ours, and there is
no use wasting the reward. So we will take off his head and take it to
Damascus and the Turks will give us ten thousand pounds.'"

Gordon smiled grimly at Olga's horror. That was typical Arab logic.

"It didn't occur to Mitkhal that Hassan might miss his first shot and
not get a chance to shoot again, I suppose?" he suggested.

"Oh, yes, effendi, Mitkhal thinks of everything. If you kill Hassan,
Mitkhal will swear you broke the covenant yourself, by spilling the
blood of a Rualla, or a Rualla's servant, which is the same thing, and
will feel free to order you beheaded."

There was genuine humor in Gordon's laugh.

"Thanks, Musa! If I saved your life, you've paid me back. Better get
out now, before somebody sees you talking to us."

"What shall we do?" exclaimed Olga, pale to the lips.

"You're in no danger," he assured her.

She colored angrily.

"I wasn't thinking of that! Do you think I have less gratitude than
that Arab boy? That shaykh means to murder you, don't you understand?
Let's steal camels and run for it!"

"Run where? If we did, they'd be on our heels in no time, deciding I'd
lied to them about everything. Anyway, we wouldn't have a chance.
They're watching us too closely. Besides, I wouldn't run if I could. I
started to wipe out Osman Pasha, and this is the best chance I see to
do it. Come on. Let's get out in the sangar before Mitkhal gets
suspicious."

As soon as the well was blocked the men retired to the hillsides.
Their camels were hidden behind the ridges, and the men crouched
behind rocks and among the stunted shrubs along the slopes. Olga
refused Gordon's offer to send her with an escort back to the Walls,
and stayed with him taking up a position behind a rock, Osman's pistol
in her belt. They lay flat on the ground and the heat of the sun-baked
flints seeped through their garments.

Once she turned her head, and shuddered to see the blank black
countenance of Hassan regarding them from some bushes a few yards
behind them: The black slave, who knew no law but his master's
command, was determined not to let Gordon out of his sight.

She spoke of this in a low whisper to the American.

"Sure," he murmured. "I saw him. But he won't shoot till he knows
which way the fight's going, and is sure none of the men are looking."

Olga's flesh crawled in anticipation of more horrors. If they lost the
fight the enraged Ruallas would tear Gordon to pieces, supposing he
survived the encounter. If they won, his reward would be a treacherous
bullet in the back.

The hours dragged slowly by. Not a flutter of cloth, no lifting of an
impudent head betrayed the presence of the wild men on the slopes.
Olga began to feel her nerves quiver. Doubts and forebodings gnawed
maddeningly at her.

"We took position too soon! The men will lose patience. Osman can't
get here before midnight. It took us all night to reach the Well."

"Bedouins never lose patience when they smell loot," he answered. "I
believe Osman will get here before sundown. We made poor time on a
tiring camel for the last few hours of that ride. I believe Osman
broke camp before dawn and pushed hard."

Another thought came to torture her.

"Suppose he doesn't come at all? Suppose he has changed his plans and
gone somewhere else? The Rualla will believe you lied to them!"

"Look!"

The sun hung low in the west, a fiery, dazzling ball. She blinked,
shading her eyes.

Then the head of a marching column grew out of the dancing heat-waves:
lines of horsemen, grey with dust, files of heavily laden baggage
camels, with the captive women riding them. The standard hung loose in
the breathless air; but once, when a vagrant gust of wind, hot as the
breath of perdition, lifted the folds, the white wolf's head was
displayed.

Crushing proof of idolatry and heresy! In their agitation the Rualla
almost betrayed themselves. Even Mitkhal turned pale.

"Allah! Sacrilege! Forgotten of God. Hell shall be thy portion!"

"Easy!" hissed Gordon, feeling the semi-hysteria that ran down the
lurking lines. "Wait for my signal. They may halt to water their
camels at the well."

Osman must have driven his people like a fiend all day. The women
drooped on the loaded camels; the dust-caked faces of the soldiers
were drawn. The horses reeled with weariness. But it was soon evident
that they did not intend halting at the well with their goal, the
Walls of Sulaiman, so near. The head of the column was even with the
sangar when Gordon fired. He was aiming at Osman, but the range was
long, the sun-glare on the rocks dazzling. The man behind Osman fell,
and at the signal the slopes came alive with spurting flame.

The column staggered. Horses and men went down and stunned soldiers
gave back a ragged fire that did no harm. They did not even see their
assailants save as bits of white cloth bobbing among the boulders.

Perhaps discipline had grown lax during the grind of that merciless
march. Perhaps panic seized the tired Turks. At any rate the column
broke and men fled toward the sangar without waiting for orders. They
would have abandoned the baggage camels had not Osman ridden among
them. Cursing and striking with the flat of his saber, he made them
drive the beasts in with them.

"I hoped they'd leave the camels and women outside," grunted Gordon.
"Maybe they'll drive them out when they find there's no water."

The Turks took their positions in good order, dismounting and ranging
along the wall. Some dragged the Arab women off the camels and drove
them into the hut. Others improvised a pen for the animals with stakes
and ropes between the back of the hut and the wall. Saddles were piled
in the gate to complete the barricade.

The Arabs yelled taunts as they poured in a hail of lead, and a few
leaped up and danced derisively, waving their rifles. But they stopped
that when a Turk drilled one of them cleanly through the head. When
the demonstrations ceased, the besiegers offered scanty targets to
shoot at.

However, the Turks fired back frugally and with no indication of
panic, now that they were under cover and fighting the sort of a fight
they understood. They were well protected by the wall from the men
directly in front of them, but those facing north could be seen by the
men on the south ridge, and vice versa. But the distance was too great
for consistently effective shooting at these marks by the Arabs.

"We don't seem to be doing much damage," remarked Olga presently.

"Thirst will win for us," Gordon answered. "All we've got to do is to
keep them bottled up. They probably have enough water in their
canteens to last through the rest of the day. Certainly no longer.
Look, they're going to the well now."

The well stood in the middle of the enclosure, in a comparatively
exposed area, as seen from above. Olga saw men approaching it with
canteens in their hands, and the Arabs, with sardonic enjoyment,
refrained from firing at them. They reached the well, and then the
girl saw the change come over them. It ran through their band like an
electric shock. The men along the walls reacted by firing wildly. A
furious yelling rose, edged with hysteria, and men began to run madly
about the enclosure. Some toppled, hit by shots dropping from the
ridges.

"What are they doing?" Olga started to her knees, and was instantly
jerked down again by Gordon. The Turks were running into the hut. If
she had been watching Gordon she would have sensed the meaning of it,
for his dark face grew suddenly grim.

"They're dragging the women out!" she exclaimed. "I see Osman waving
his saber. What? Oh, God! They're butchering the women!"

Above the crackle of shots rose terrible shrieks and the sickening
chack of savagely driven blows. Olga turned sick and hid her face.
Osman had realized the trap into which he had been driven, and his
reaction was that of a mad dog. Recognizing defeat in the blocked
well, facing the ruin of his crazy ambitions by thirst and Bedouin
bullets, he was taking this vengeance on the whole Arab race.

On all sides the Arabs rose howling, driven to frenzy by the sight of
that slaughter. That these women were of another tribe made no
difference. A stern chivalry was the foundation of their society, just
as it was among the frontiersmen of early America. There was no
sentimentalism about it. It was real and vital as life itself.

The Rualla went berserk when they saw women of their race falling
under the swords of the Turks. A wild yell shattered the brazen sky,
and recklessly breaking cover, the Arabs pelted down the slopes,
howling like fiends. Gordon could not check them, nor could Mitkhal.
Their shouts fell on deaf ears. The walls vomited smoke and flame as
withering volleys raked the oncoming hordes. Dozens fell, but enough
were left to reach the wall and sweep over it in a wave that neither
lead nor steel could halt.

And Gordon was among them. When he saw he could not stop the storm he
joined it. Mitkhal was not far behind him, cursing his men as he ran.
The shaykh had no stomach for this kind of fighting, but his
leadership was at stake. No man who hung back in this charge would
ever be able to command the Rualla again.

Gordon was among the first to reach the wall, leaping over the
writhing bodies of half a dozen Arabs. He had not blazed away wildly
as he ran like the Bedouins, to reach the wall with an empty gun. He
held his fire until the flame spurts from the barrier were almost
burning his face, and then emptied his rifle in a point-blank fusilade
that left a bloody gap where there had been a line of fierce dark
faces an instant before. Before the gap could be closed he had swarmed
over and in, and the Rualla poured after him.

As his feet hit the ground a rush of men knocked him against the wall
and a blade, thrusting for his life, broke against the rocks. He drove
his shortened butt into a snarling face, splintering teeth and bones,
and the next instant a surge of his own men over the wall cleared a
space about him. He threw away his broken rifle and drew his pistol.

The Turks had been forced back from the wall in a dozen places now,
and men were fighting all over the sangar. No quarter was asked--none
given. The pitiful headless bodies sprawled before the blood-stained
but had turned the Bedouins into hot-eyed demons. The guns were empty
now, all but Gordon's automatic. The yells had died down to grunts,
punctuated by death-howls. Above these sounds rose the chopping impact
of flailing blades, the crunch of fiercely driven rifle butts. So
grimly had the Bedouins suffered in that brainless rush, that now they
were outnumbered, and the Turks fought with the fury of desperation.

It was Gordon's automatic, perhaps, that tipped the balance. He
emptied it without haste and without hesitation, and at that range he
could not miss. He was aware of a dark shadow forever behind him, and
turned once to see black Hassan following him, smiting methodically
right and left with a heavy scimitar already dripping crimson. Even in
the fury of the strife, Gordon grinned. The literal-minded Soudanese
was obeying instructions to keep at El Borak's heels. As long as the
battle hung in doubt, he was Gordon's protector--ready to become his
executioner the instant the tide turned in their favor.

"Faithful servant," called Gordon sardonically. "Have a care lest
these Turks cheat you of my head!"

Hassan grinned, speechless. Suddenly blood burst from his thick lips
and he buckled at the knees. Somewhere in that rush down the hill his
black body had stopped a bullet. As he struggled on all fours a Turk
ran in from the side and brained him with a rifle-butt. Gordon killed
the Turk with his last bullet. He felt no grudge against Hassan. The
man had been a good soldier, and had obeyed orders given him.

The sangar was a shambles. The men on their feet were less than those
on the ground, and all were streaming blood. The white wolf standard
had been torn from its staff and lay trampled under vengeful feet.
Gordon bent, picked up a saber and looked about for Osman. He saw
Mitkhal, running toward the horse-pen, and then he yelled a warning,
for he saw Osman.

The man broke away from a group of struggling figures and ran for the
pen. He tore away the ropes and the horses, frantic from the noise and
smell of blood, stampeded into the sangar, knocking men down and
trampling them. As they thundered past, Osman, with a magnificent
display of agility, caught a handful of flying mane and leaped on the
back of the racing steed.

Mitkhal ran toward him, yelling furiously, and snapping a pistol at
him. The shaykh, in the confusion of the fighting, did not seem to be
aware that the gun was empty, for he pulled the trigger again and
again as he stood in the path of the oncoming rider. Only at the last
moment did he realize his peril and leap back. Even so, he would have
sprung clear had not his sandal heel caught in a dead man's abba.

Mitkhal stumbled, avoided the lashing hoofs, but not the down-flailing
saber in Osman's hand. A wild cry went up from the Rualla as Mitkhal
fell, his turban suddenly crimson. The next instant Osman was out of
the gate and riding like the wind--straight up the hillside to where he
saw the slim figure of the girl to whom he now attributed his
overthrow.

Olga had come out from behind the rocks and was standing in stunned
horror watching the fight below. Now she awoke suddenly to her own
peril at the sight of the madman charging up the slope. She drew the
pistol Gordon had taken from him and opened fire. She was not a very
good shot. Three bullets missed, the fourth killed the horse, and then
the gun jammed. Gordon was running up the slope as the Apaches of his
native Southwest run, and behind him streamed a swarm of Rualla. There
was not a loaded gun in the whole horde.

Osman took a shocking fall when his horse turned a somersault under
him, but rose, bruised and bloody, with Gordon still some distance
away. But the Turk had to play hide-and-seek for a few moments among
the rocks with his prey before he was able to grasp her hair and twist
her screaming to her knees and then he paused an instant to enjoy her
despair and terror. That pause was his undoing.

As he lifted his saber to strike off her head, steel clanged loud on
steel. A numbing shock ran through his arm and his blade was knocked
from his hand. His weapon rang on the hot flints. He whirled to face
the blazing slits that were El Borak's eyes. The muscles stood out in
cords and ridges on Gordon's sunburnt forearm in the intensity of his
passion.

"Pick it up, you filthy dog," he said between his teeth.

Osman hesitated, stooped, caught up the saber and slashed at Gordon's
legs without straightening. Gordon leaped back, then sprang in again
the instant his toes touched the earth. His return was as paralyzingly
quick as the death-leap of a wolf. It caught Osman off balance, his
sword extended. Gordon's blade hissed as it cut the air, slicing
through flesh, gritting through bone.

The Turk's head toppled from the severed neck and fell at Gordon's
feet, the headless body collapsing in a heap. With an excess spasm of
hate, Gordon kicked the head savagely down the slope.

"Oh!" Olga turned away and hid her face. But the girl knew that Osman
deserved any fate that could have overtaken him. Presently she was
aware of Gordon's hand resting lightly on her shoulder and she looked
up, ashamed of her weakness. The sun was just dipping below the
western ridges. Musa came limping up the slope, blood-stained but
radiant.

"The dogs are all dead, effendi!" he cried, industriously shaking a
plundered watch, in an effort to make it run. "Such of our warriors as
still live are faint from strife, and many sorely wounded. There is
none to command now but thou."

"Sometimes problems settle themselves," mused Gordon. "But at a
ghastly price. If the Rualla hadn't made that rush, which was the
death of Hassan and Mitkhal--oh, well, such things are in the hands of
Allah, as the Arabs say. A hundred better men than I have died today,
but by the decree of some blind Fate, I live."

Gordon looked down on the wounded men. He turned to Musa.

"We must load the wounded on camels," he said, "and take them to the
camp at the Walls where there's water and shade. Come."

As they started down the slope he said to Olga, "I'll have to stay
with them till they're settled at the Walls, then I must start for the
coast. Some of the Rualla will be able to ride, though, and you need
have no fear of them. They'll escort you to the nearest Turkish
outpost."

She looked at him in surprise.

"Then I'm not your prisoner?"

He laughed.

"I think you can help Feisal more by carrying out your original
instructions of supplying misleading information to the Turks! I don't
blame you for not confiding even in me. You have my deepest
admiration, for you're playing the most dangerous game a woman can."

"Oh!" She felt a sudden warm flood of relief and gladness that he
should know she was not really an enemy. Musa was well out of ear-shot.
"I might have known you were high enough in Feisal's councils to
know that I really am--"

"Gloria Willoughby, the cleverest, most daring secret agent the
British government employs," he murmured. The girl impulsively placed
her slender fingers in his, and hand in hand they went down the slope
together.



THE END





</pre>

<p align="center"><img src="/pga-australia.jpg" width="80" height="75" alt=""> </p>

<p align="center"><b>This site is full of FREE ebooks - <a href="http://gutenberg.net.au" target="_blank">Project Gutenberg Australia</a></b></p>
<hr align="center" width="40%">

<p align="center">
<script type="text/javascript"><!--
google_ad_client = "pub-5844598359620998";
google_ad_width = 728;
google_ad_height = 90;
google_ad_format = "728x90_as";
google_ad_type = "text_image";
//2007-05-03: books-txt
google_ad_channel = "5958809296";
//-->
</script>
<script type="text/javascript"
  src="http://pagead2.googlesyndication.com/pagead/show_ads.js">
</script>
</p>

<script src="http://www.google-analytics.com/urchin.js" type="text/javascript">
</script>
<script type="text/javascript">
_uacct = "UA-1364266-1";
urchinTracker();
</script>

